Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [October](./westkarana.md)
# EQ2: I just gotta have more cowbell

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-10-18 07:34:00*

Very quick note on Live Update 39, will do more tonight...

Hallowe'en quests aren't in, those are scheduled for the 26th. The next quest in the Kunark line went live, it requires you to kill a few followers of Venril Sathir in Feerrott (there was a line for one of them) and eventually scare them straight by using an illusion of Cazic Thule to bring them away from their heretical belief in the divinity of Venril Sathir. It's not an instance, but the mobs do innovatively scale to your level nonetheless.

The Shard of Fear is a single group, level 70+ instance in Feerrott, right where you expect it to be. The loot that drops from there will be very familiar to anyone who raided Fear in EQ1, except many of the items have bad points mixed in with the good.

There's a "More Cowbell" sword that drops in the Shard of Fear -- its effect is called "Bis Bovis Carillion" -- Latin for "More Cowbell" -- and the name of it is something like "Dawnfear, the Reaper" (Don't Fear the Reaper)... I didn't get a chance to do more than poke my head into Fear since we were raiding Emerald Halls later (and for once, I got to play my bard instead of my cleric), and I wanted to finish the latest Kunark opener quest before we started. But the links were amazing. Crimson Robe of Alendine, Amulet of Necropotence, all the old stuff. Plus the "More Cowbell" sword. Eric Bloom, lead singer of Blue Oyster Cult (the band that did Don't Fear the Reaper, and the person who actually played the cowbell in the song), plays EQ2... I bet he was laughing last night...

A good number of people in my guild had never heard of Blue Oyster Cult. Talk about heresies. One of the best rock bands ever, reduced to occasional play on oldies stations and their best music entirely unheard, remembered now (if at all) for the "More Cowbell" sketch on Saturday Night Live...

Pictures and more tonight... gotta go to work.
