# RMT, Monopoly Style

*Posted by Tipa on 2006-07-25 13:06:50*

*Players Abel, Baker, Charlie and Dawn sit down for a friendly game of Monopoly. They each draw their starting money from the Bank. Baker gives a $20 bill to the banker and receives all the remaining $500 notes.*

Abel: Huh? What's that all about? You can't do that!

Baker: Pfft. Sure, it's *technically* against the rules, but everyone does it. I'm a very busy person, and I don't have time to grind this out the regular way. And anyway, the game's only fun the last twenty minutes, when everyone is rich.

*The game continues. Charlie lands on Pacific Ave, but he doesn't have enough money to buy it. The rules say it goes up for auction to all players.*

Dawn: Okay... I bid $300.

Abel: This is the last green I need! $450!

Baker: I bid $1500.

*Nobody can match that, so Baker pays the $1500 to the bank and gets the property. He then buys the $1500 back from the bank for two dollars.*

Abel: That isn't fair.

Baker, shrugging: We just have different playstyles. I'm not stopping you from rolling the dice, going past GO!, collecting $200.

*Dawn rolls and lands on Boardwalk. She can't afford it unless she mortgages all her other properties. Since Baker will surely win it if it goes to bid, she mortgages everything and buys Boardwalk.*

*Abel rolls and lands on Indiana Avenue, one of Baker's completed colors. Luckily, there's no hotel there - Baker has bought up 24 of the 32 houses for his properties so that nobody else can build hotels, but the rent for a four house Red is more than Abel can afford.*

Abel: This game is screwed up. I'm outta here.

Baker: Buh-bye. Go back to checkers, noob.

Charlie & Dawn: We're off to the forums to complain!

Baker: Cry more, whiners.

Parker Brothers: We're happy to announce our new Monopoly Exchange program! We have Boardwalk and Park Place available for sale on our website *right now*, as well as a limited supply of our new *$1,000 notes*! We accept MasterCard, VISA, and Paypal!
