# An MMO Brokerage?

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-03-11 10:35:29*

[Brenlo has said](http://tagn.wordpress.com/2007/03/02/how-your-station-access-money-allocated/) that your Station Pass money is distributed proportionally among the games you play based on the time you play them.

Well, if SOE can do that with their games, why can't they do that with other people's games?

I'd pay $29.99 a month if my "Station Pass" could buy me access to EQ1, EQ2, Vanguard, LotRO, World of Warcraft, Dungeon Runners, Gods & Heroes, Star Trek Online... I'd pay even MORE, probably.

Why restrict it to just SOE's games? There's got to be a valid business model in here somewhere. I bet Auto Assault (or even City of Heroes) would be doing better for NCSoft if all the two millions of World of Warcraft players in NA and Europe could drop by for a look.

Someone will make this happen. Having to pay $15/month/game makes us choose unnecessarily between one or two games. Why not $30/month for *all* games? The money distributed to the game publishers in the proportion I play them? If I am 100% into WoW this month, Blizzard makes double their normal fee (minus the percentage the brokerage takes)! If I play just WoW and City of Heroes, NCSoft and Blizzard get their due as well.

SOE, please, do this before someone else does it. Break off your Station Pass/Launchpad business, negotiate with MMO publishers large and small, and make this happen. Somebody will. It's what people want.

Asian players often play in Internet cafes and support (from what I understand) a "play by the minute/pay by the minute" deal that allows the Asian market to support *tons* of MMOs both large and small. So. Millions of gamers in the world *already* have this sort of deal and it has given Asian MMOs success undreamt in the West (except for Blizzard, who is doing so well worldwide precisely because it *does* support this).

So... come on, SOE... Make it happen before someone else does.
