Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [April](./westkarana.md)
# The Terrorists have left the building.

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-04-08 08:49:43*

You know that Chinese restaurant fortune cookie game -- where you open up your fortune cookie, but have to read it aloud and whatever it is, say "in bed!" afterward? Like, "Tomorrow will be your lucky day -- IN BED!"

Hilarious!

So anyway, I have a little variation. Find a newspaper headline, and put it in the middle of "If ---, the terrorists win."

Let's try it with today's [Slashdot](http://slashdot.org) stories.

"If ICANN moves against GoDaddy domain lockdowns, the terrorists win."
"If astronomers locate solar system similar to our own... the terrorists win."
"If Richard Dawkins appears on Doctor Who... the Terrorists WIN."
"If Imperial Storm Troopers skirmish in IP battle... the Terrorist stormtroopers WIN."
"If Yahoo! rejects Microsoft's offer -- gawddammit, the TERRORISTS have ALREADY WON."

Remember, we fight them there so we don't have to fight them here.

## Comments!
---
**Syncaine** writes: If the terrorists 'win', do they stop being terrorists, and then those fighting them inherit the terrorist title?
---
**Einhorn** writes: If Bethesda messes up Fallout 3, the terrorists win - IN BED!
---
**Tipa** writes: oooo pwned!
---
**Keen** writes: If World of Warcraft reaches 11 million subscribers, the terrorists win.\r\n\r\nOkay, I made that one up.
---
**Tipa** writes: @Syncaine - Yes. The American revolutionaries were once terrorists and insurgent guerillas. After they won the war, they were patriots. I want to know what terrorist is pushing all your comments to the spam bin.\r\n\r\n@Keen — in the year 2010, the government will make playing WoW mandatory and the fee will be added to your tax bill.\r\n
---
**almagill** writes: In 2010 governments worldwide are abandoning all education programmes and teaching will be done in WoW.
---
**Relmstein** writes: I kid you not.\r\n\r\n"Work on improving your exercise routine" or else the terrorists win.
---
**Captain Angry** writes: If people continue to do that hacky "in bed" joke, the terrorists win.\r\n\r\nIn a Chinese restaurant this past week I asked my wife what it would cost me for her to NEVER mention it again. She proposed that I give her the uneaten half of my cookie. I agreed.
---
**Tipa** writes: Gah... I forgot to do it last night and can't from work... the DEFINITIVE sketch on "... in bed" was done by the Upright Citizen's Brigade... or was it Kids in the Hall? Anyway... it slays. I have to try and find it tonight.
---
**Einhorn** writes: @ Syncaine\r\n\r\nTipa over-analyzed your comment - It's ok, I know you were just making a Counterstrike reference. =P
---
**Tipa** writes: Yeah, because I'm all about the FPS :P So I'd get that.
---
**Openedge1** writes: <a href="http://www.milkandcookies.com/link/52261/detail/" title="In bed" rel="nofollow">Upright...In Bed</a>
---
**Tipa** writes: Is that it? (Can't watch from work :P) if so THANKS!!!
---
**Einhorn** writes: Ouch! I have been burned =)
---
**Captain Angry** writes: Yeah, that UCB bit is about how it usually goes for me. They don't call me Captain Angry for nothing.
---
**Tipa** writes: Here's the Youtube version for those of us without those plugins:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t6swyTknZfo
