# 7DRL Day 2: Monsters, Targets, Items

*Posted by Tipa on 2010-03-07 20:05:11*

My 7DRL entry is moving along, but it's not moving quickly. I'd said even before I started this that, given a full time job, how the game was at the end of Sunday -- today -- is how it would have to be.

I ALMOST got inventory in today; it is partially in, but I need to display it, and I will get to that, but it will likely be the last feature I implement. I need to start adding in the content.

So, plan for Monday night: Finish the inventory and add multiple floors. I'm sure glad that nobody will be playing this version. I have all sorts of ideas for how I might do it better. For one thing, I am backing away from making a 'Roguelike' that is a copy of Rogue. That's been done, hundreds of times. Looking at some of the other entries has inspired me to take a step away from normalcy and really focus on unique features -- I like the way my map looks, I think with some work I could expand on that kind of handmade look.

It doesn't seem so, but the game today is double the complexity it was yesterday. But I am failing at putting the fun in. If all I do is work on mechanics, I'll run out of time to add fun.

Note to self: need to add a scrolling message pane.

I wrote a media management library to handle all the images; it's pretty sophisticated, handles all the graphics except for the map itself. Pretty proud of how that's coming along.

The Pygame graphics library is slowly showing its power, as I get deeper into sprite management and layered groups. If nothing else, the NEXT game I write with Pygame should go a lot faster.

Note to self: Next game, we do that 2.5D perspective.

Here's the video. I don't know why the screen recording software adds those clicks.


