Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [September](./westkarana.md)
# Wizard101 introduces player mounts -- INCLUDING BROOMS!

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-09-16 17:50:21*

Here's the hot news from the Austin Game Developer's Conference about Wizard101! Clearly it's not news about the next expansion, but I can't say I'm disappointed! VERY exciting stuff!

---

The next major new content being developed by KingsIsle Entertainment for Wizard101 is a series of Wizard Mounts that provide a fun, fast, and stylish way of getting around. Many different types of Wizard Mounts will be available with more to come in the future. Initially, four will be introduced: Brooms, Horses, Cats, and Dragons!

Wizard Mounts may be rented for a day or a week. They may also be purchased permanently. The one and seven day rental gives Wizards a chance to try out the mount and decide which one they want to own permanently. One day rentals add a 20% movement speed increase. Seven day rentals and permanent purchases add a 40% movement speed increase.

One day rentals may be purchased with in-game gold. Seven day rentals and permanent Wizard Mounts may be purchased with in-game gold or Crowns. All mounts may be purchased at the Crown shop (player user interface that will be available in October) or Zeke.

Wizard Mounts are expected to launch in October 2009.

Wizard Mounts Fast Facts:


 * Four types at release: Brooms, Horses, Cats, and Dragons!

 * Available in a variety of appearances that favor male and female styles.

 * May be rented for 1-day or 7-days, or purchased permanently.

 * 1-day rentals give 20% movement speed increase; 7-day and permanent purchases give 40% movement speed increase.

 * May be purchased for in-game gold and Crowns from the new, upcoming Crown shop or Zeke.

 * Available in October.




[gallery link="file" orderby="title"]
