# Star Trek Online: Congratulations, Lieutenant!

*Posted by Tipa on 2010-01-11 18:18:01*

I've just learned that Star Trek Online is now in Open Beta! The weekend closed beta patch is being backed out, I guess it wasn't stable enough. There will be a less sweeping patch before Open Beta goes live. The title of this post is an in-joke referring to the odd, unexplained times when Leonard Nimoy's voice would pop out of the speaker with his heartfelt congratulations.

Tomorrow will be Star Trek Online day here on WestKarana.com. There'll be articles throughout the day talking about the game's basics, space combat, ground combat and the PvP-heavy Klingon Empire.

So tune in tomorrow if you have any interest at all in the latest game from the developers of Champions Online.

Here's the email testers got this evening:


> Greetings, Captain!

Thank you very much for all the hours you put in helping to get the game ready for Open Beta. The bugs, the crashes, the disconnects, and the great posts about the game have helped us shape the game for launch.

As of 10:00 a.m. this morning, Closed Beta has ended and we are now in Open Beta.

Anyone who played in Closed Beta will have their account keys switched over to Open Beta keys and will have access to Holodeck when we open up the server to begin testing.

We have patched Holodeck back to ST.0.20100108a.0 for the time being to give you time to patch your client to the Open Beta build. If you played at all or patch up over the weekend to 8a.1 - then you will have a significant patch to get back to 8a.0. There is no way around this other than patching or doing a full client install.

You can also go the complete safe route and uninstall the game, then do a full client install of 8a.0 by using the new Downloader (found on the Beta - Download page)

There will be another small patch prior to the start of Open Beta which will bring your client up to 8b.x - which will be our final build for the start of Open Beta. The patch from 8a.0 to 8b.x is approx 50mb. Eta for 8b.x to be available for patching is later today

We'll update this post if there are any other changes.

Also:

The Beta Forums will be locked at 2:00 p.m. PST today and everyone will be moved to the regular forums.

So patch up or grab the download via whatever means and get ready to roll!

WELCOME TO OPEN BETA!




