Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [November](./westkarana.md)
# Spellborn soundscape

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-11-01 16:16:16*

Saw this on [WarCry](http://www.warcry.com/news/view/87141-Chronicles-of-Spellborn-Hawksmouth-Soundscapes); it's a video of the shard of Hawksmouth in Spellborn with the ambient sound and music going. It's... strangely relaxing. The streets they show are streets I'd like to walk down. The whole thing reminds me a lot of Baldur's Gate II, but with modern, 3D graphics...


## Comments!
---
**TheRemedy** writes: That brought back memories of Myst more than anything else.
---
**Openedge1** writes: That was very cool. I enjoyed that immensely.\r\n\r\nMusic is so underrated in games. \r\n\r\nGuild Wars soundtrack is bar none a massive treat.\r\n\r\nConan feels bombastic.\r\n\r\nEQ2's zones had very cool feelings, like the starting areas were light hearted and fun.\r\n\r\nEven those first times in WoW.\r\n\r\nNow that games are also going to "action" scene based music (EQ2, Guild Wars, Conan), where the tempo changes according to the fight...awesome.\r\n\r\nThe ambiance is lovely in this video. Can't wait to see more.
---
**TheRemedy** writes: Mind you I didn't read the title or the first two sentences and was paying attention to the imagery and not really the sound. Facepalm.jpg for sure.
---
**Ardwulf** writes: That does indeed look great, and the sound is terrific - very atmospheric.
---
**tenfoldhate** writes: Did you happen to see the TCoS travel video? I found the link over at Virginworlds yesterday.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gamebunny.com/?p=4002\r\n\r\n(As I repeat the mantra, "I will no longer get enthusiastic about an MMORPG until I play it, I will no longer get enthusiastic about an MMORPG until I play it, I will no longer get enthusiastic about an MMORPG until I play it)\r\n\r\nLooking good...\r\n\r\n= )
---
**Tipa** writes: Thanks, will have to check it out when I get home!\r\n\r\nI like the way Spellborn is being launched. Nobody is hammering anyone over the head with a deluge of TMI, just here and there, someone grabs your sleeve and says, 'Hey, check this out!'
