Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [February](./westkarana.md)
# Wizard 101: How many times must Malistaire die?

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-02-09 13:10:21*

The last instance in Dragonspyre is a grind that ends with Malistaire's defeat at your victorious, albeit blood-soaked, hands. He hands out a robe. One out every seven times, it will be the robe for your school of magic.

That same instance contains the bosses who drop the class-specific ring and athame, too -- 1/7 of the time.

So how many times will you be battling Malistaire and his friends to get everything you want?

Your very first time in the instance, you only have a 0.29% chance of getting all three drops, so you'll almost certainly be there more than once. But since this instance *requires* a group of at least three wizards to complete -- you want to know how often you and your friends will need to make time to get together.

I ran a statistical analysis!

First, a definition of terms for those whose math days are behind them.

The ***median*** of a set of values is the element in the middle of a sorted set. The ***mean*** of a set of values is the mathematical average. These are different here because there's an upper limit to lucky -- you could, potentially, get everything first time through -- but no limit on unlucky -- there is no guarantee you will ever get a drop you can use. The ***standard deviation*** is how tightly values are clustered around the mean. 95% of the values in a set with a known *expected value* (in this case, the mean) is within two standard deviations of it.

`median got robe: 5
  mean: 7.074400 stddev: 6.506202
  95% chance to get robe: 20`

`median got all: 11
  mean: 12.377000 stddev: 7.590960
  95% chance to get everything: 28`

`Chance you got everything if you stopped when you got your robe: 36%
Median number of additional runs to get everything once robe obtained: 3
Longest time to get robe: 64
Longest time to get everything: 69`

Half of the wizards who fight Malistaire will have gotten their robe by their fifth time through. If they want to continue on until they get their ring and athame too, half of the wizards had either gotten the ring and athame already or took no more than three additional runs to complete the set. So 25% of all wizards will get every piece of their class gear from the last instance within eight runs.

75% of all wizards just won't be that lucky, though (although half of all wizards will get everything by their eleventh time through). There's hope. 95% of all wizards will have gotten their robe by the twentieth time through (and 5%... won't). 95% of all wizards will have gotten everything by their 33rd time through.

So far, it looks like the bosses all drop one of their set every time. Otherwise the values would be really out there.

How many times will you, personally, run the last instance? Count on at least seven.

These numbers are based on a simulation running 10,000 wizards through the final instance and counting how many runs it took each one to get their robe and how many additional runs to get everything. It assumes that each boss has an equal chance to drop any class-specific item.

