Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [October](./westkarana.md)
# Sony cravenly succumbs to its fear of religious expression.

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-10-17 13:42:28*

With EverQuest's expansion, LittleBigPlanet and Rock Band 2 for the PS3 all launching on the same day, deciding what game to PLAY would just be tearing me apart.

Thankfully, LittleBigPlanet has [moved its launch date out a bit](http://www.eurogamer.net/article.php?article_id=262215) so as to make my life somewhat less stressful. Media Molecule, I didn't know you cared.

Well, actually, it's because one of the songs in the soundtrack contains phrases from the Qu'ran, so they are recalling every copy of the game so they can replace it, as they would rather not take any risk of offending Muslims.

Now, if it had been offensive to Christians, they'd likely have used it as a selling point, and free publicity.

I don't mention religion much, this not being a religion blog, but I'm a Christian, and I'm a gamer, and I don't get offended when people bash Christianity. It can take it. And I think Muslim gamers are not much different. The Qu'ran can survive having some of its words used in a song. Sony is just being cowardly. The point is not to take religion away from the world, but to make it more a part of the world.

If *I* were a Muslim, I'd be offended that Sony would fear the Qu'ran so much that it would recall, at great expense, all the copies of a game to take a harmless mention of a holy book out.
