Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [August](./westkarana.md)
# To my music-starved guild.

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-08-08 07:37:23*

I can't believe you guys had NEVER heard of the bands I listen to. I mean, I'm hardly on the cutting edge, and these bands aren't that obscure...

Okay, backstory here for those who weren't on Vent last night during our Veksar run. Rogbog was web-casting our Nostalgia night to the world (interest when it was us killing dragons: high. Interest when it was us grinding levels and AA: low). Anyway, he was running some music behind the video, I asked him who it was, he said [Cake](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nbzt1HnVzIQ), I thought they reminded me of [King Missile](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=byDiILrNbM4) and I happened to mention some of the bands I listened to, and nobody had heard of any of them... Now usually people make fun of my musical tastes because I like 70s bands like Jethro Tull and Blue Oyster Cult, but THESE bands aren't old... so I was surprised.

Anyway, these bands are on heavy rotation on my Eee.

Portishead "Wandering Star"


The Hush Sound "Don't Wake Me Up"


The Decemberists "O Valencia"


The Dresden Dolls "Coin-Operated Boy" (got into them when I lived in San Diego)


Undadogg "Butterfly Disease"


Ayreon "The Human Equation" trailer


## Comments!
---
**Myrix** writes: Ayreon. Nice!
---
**Tipa** writes: I have a rule about Ayreon. If random shuffle brings up a song on "The Human Equation", I start from the beginning and listen to the whole thing, all two hours of it.
---
**Openedge1** writes: Started out good, then you lost me. I love eclectic styles, but you have quite the list here.\r\nI love Portishead, but The Hush Sound "sounds" like Natalie Merchant slightly\r\nDecemberists sound like Mellow "Hootie"\r\nThis is some really good "Coffee House" music for sure..\r\n\r\nlol\r\n\r\nAnyways, I guess I am in your boat, and no one knows my old music (Yes, Genesis (the REAL Genesis before the loss of Peter), Jethro Tull, etc..\r\nBut, I really do not listen to these guys anymore. Being a musician I guess I prefer to listen to bands that no one knows...as it always seems...fresh. I just need new material, as I have listened to this stuff a million times...\r\n\r\nSo, I will go very "Low brow" like\r\n<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyZkb4MJFxM&amp;feature=related" rel="nofollow">The Album Leaf</a>\r\nOr psychedelic\r\n<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ol787NjpBS4" rel="nofollow">Slowdive</a>\r\nOr when I need to rock out\r\n<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=26iXUFxvO7c&amp;feature=related" rel="nofollow">Trail of the Dead</a>\r\nOr MY "popular" group, and slightly coffee house\r\n<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uY1ahFCYT5k" rel="nofollow">Death Cab For Cutie</a>\r\n\r\n(And PS: David Bowie still is as awesome today as he was in yesteryear...<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wniGFm_jgRI" rel="nofollow"> During the Reality Tour (I saw this...YEA!)</a>)
---
**Tipa** writes: Heh... you have a good ear. The lead singer for The Hush Sound DOES sound a lot like Natalie Merchant, but THS shares the vocals a little more with the guy. I don't remember any Hootie songs, all I remember about them is that David Letterman liked them.\r\n\r\nI used to really love Yes, but they went downhill after that whole ABWH thing, and the lyrics have not aged well in many cases. My favorite Genesis period is just after Gabriel left; Trick of the Tail is my favorite Genesis album. I have some of the earlier albums but don't listen to them much.\r\n\r\nI'll listen to your stuff tonight :) No opinion on Ayreon?
---
**Openedge1** writes: Ooo...sorry. I only had a chance to check the vid real quick, but seemed like a lot of talking..\r\nI just went to search this out though, and plan to listen to the samples on their site tonight.\r\n\r\nBut, it got me with the "concept" piece, so I am ready to listen.\r\n\r\nI use to love concept albums (Genesis:Lamb lies Down on Broadway, Pallas: The Sentinel) and these look fascinating.\r\n\r\nI will make sure to chirp in later...\r\n\r\nIf you like shared vocals, like THS, then make sure to search out "Thingy" (even though it is almost impossible to find)\r\nThey are considerably more "Rock like" in nature, yet they had this whole "Poetic" (read : Nursery Rhymes) nature to their lyrics, and would do this throw back and forth with the man singing several lines, and then the woman would take over mid sentence...weird..but fun\r\n(<a href="http://allmusic.com/cg/amg.dll?p=amg&amp;sql=11:6al67u5080jk" rel="nofollow">Thingy</a>)\r\n(<a href="http://allmusic.com/cg/amg.dll?p=amg&amp;sql=10:09frxqykldje" rel="nofollow">Cool album name...and Listen to "Cottingley Fairies"(you know what those are..right? wiki it if not)</a>\r\n\r\nCheers
---
**Kanthalos** writes: I posted a bunch of groups that I like to listen to Tipa.  I'd like to know what you think of any of them.  I stole The Decemberists and The Hush Sound because I've been listening to them for over a year now and they're awesome :)  I hadn't heard Ayreon before, but I'll have to check them out more now.
---
**Tipa** writes: Ooooh yummy :) I love hearing about other people's music because usually it's something I know I'll like. Can't listen to them at work, but have bookmarked them so I can listen to them this weekend :) Between you and Openedge, I bet I find a few new bands to go ga-ga over :)
---
**Openedge1** writes: Back, and had a chance to listen to these a little more...\r\nI really liked Hush Sound and Undadogg (sp?). Something about girls singing in wistful fairy like voices (not Sarah Mclachlan style)...love it. Find more of that Slowdive to mix some psychedelic with the dreamy voice thing..\r\nLush also works...great band.\r\nBut Ayreon sounded very Dream Theater or Pallas like (if you like that style, you will love Pallas then)\r\nBut, I was not overly fond of it...it sounded too old school metal concept to me.\r\n\r\nThis is real fun to me, being that I love to find music. I will also post some goodies later for you of the websites I frequent to find new stuff you may like.\r\n\r\nThanks a ton guys!
---
**Tipa** writes: Well, Ayreon is going to sound somewhat Dream theater-esque because James LaBrie is playing the main character in "The Human Equation". But, I love Dream Theater, I love concept albums (my last fave was Queensryche's "Operation: Mindcrime"), and the songs in "The Human Equation" are in such different styles :P\r\n\r\nI've listened to some of the bands you list (been busy tonight to hear them all). The Album Leaf is pretty amazing, right off. I'm glad you showed me that.
---
**Aaron** writes: Cool stuff. I'll have to add some of those to my lookout. And yes, Queensryche had some great albums.\r\n\r\nHere's <a href="http://hallower1980.blogspot.com/2008/08/stuff-i-listen-to.html" rel="nofollow">my list</a>, in response to yours and Kath's. At the end, there's a link to the song I did with Cuppy.
---
**Mythokia** writes: It seems that I'm music starved too, or simply was just born in the wrong era and missing out on the good stuff.
---
**Tipa** writes: Okay, so what music do you listen to?
---
**Openedge1** writes: Now you did it...\r\n\r\nI linked up like crazy as well, and threw some more vids and groups on. Think I may just have to make it a weekly thing, as I have so many obscure bands, it could make you puke.\r\n\r\nCheers, and thank you for this idea..
