Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [September](./westkarana.md)
# The blogosphere just got a little more interesting...

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-09-20 08:14:11*

[Welcome back, Openedge :)](http://simple-n-complex.blogspot.com/2008/09/you-are-really-not-that-important.html)

## Comments!
---
**MmoQuests.com Â» Echoing some wise words** writes: [...] To echo someone far wiser then myself..  [...]
---
**Openedge1** writes: You mean even with all the commentary? hehe\r\n\r\nSeems a few of my favorite people made me feel like blogging is not all THAT important.\r\n\r\nSo instead I will write about what I enjoy, and have fun (after pulling a small chip off my shoulder).\r\n\r\nIt is as simple and complex as that.
---
**Sente** writes: Been away for a few days due to work and apparently something happened that I missed. You were never gone from my point of view Openedge, but welcome back anyway ;)
---
**wilhelm2451** writes: My name is Wilhelm2451, and I endorse this post.
---
**JoBildo** writes: I think, and hopefully the man himself will recognize this, that it's clear I never wanted him gone.  I just wanted the discourse to continue.\r\n\r\nHopefully, that will happen.  So we can get back to what matters.  I've made yet another post on the issue at my blog, but I'm not sure I should have.\r\n\r\nSomething tells me it'll only make matters worse.\r\n\r\nAnyway, welcome back Edge.  I honestly mean that, despite what he might think.
---
**Openedge1** writes: @JoBildo\r\n\r\nIf only any of the above written text had any truth...\r\n\r\nIt was suppose to be all about the games. \r\n\r\nYOU made it about something else complete with personal attacks, not this "discourse" you wished.\r\n\r\nTurnabout is only fairplay.\r\n\r\nBut, no need to discuss that here. That is what WE have blogs for.\r\n\r\nCheers
