# Digital Media: Amazon, Sony and CDBaby

We all have our little initiatives for this new year. Brandon at Another Here wants to better himself in a new way every [month of the year](http://www.anotherhere.com/archives/85/Podcast-30-Let-the-enrichment-begin). Me, I just want less stuff to carry around.

My perfect life would be to be so free of Stuff that I could toss my laptop and my Orange Teddy into a bag, my clothes into a suitcase, and go live anywhere. I'm a long way from that. But to be without all but the most essential possessions is a dream.

So this year is my year to go a little more Digital -- not to pay for dead tree stuff unless I just can't help it. 

My Sony Reader is filled with books and is going a very long way toward reducing the hundreds of books I even now have to worry about all the time. My iAUDIO 30Gb holds my *entire music collection* (and is backed up on my Linux machine) so I never have to open up the giant binders that contain the actual CDs (the cases long ago thrown away during another move).

I've been going legal, here, pretty much. I *may* have stumbled on a large archive of thousands of SF&F books that are long out of print (show me where I can buy Clifford D. Simak's "Time is the Simplest Thing" in a form I can read on my Reader, and I will. That one book took YEARS to find in used bookstores, and I gave it away when I moved). But I have bought lots, too.

Books bought from [Sony Connect](http://ebookstore.sony.com/) are DRM'd, but I *can* back them up, so they will always be available even if Sony Connect goes out of business. I can also read them on the PC with their software. If I lose the book, I can download books I have already purchased again from Connect for free.

I have so much music already that I haven't really needed to get much newer stuff, and those occasional albums I buy have been real CDs. Exactly what I've been trying to get away from. I don't have an iPod, so I don't have the convenience of iTunes (yes, I know they sell unprotected MP3s now. I just don't want to get into the whole iTunes thing).

An article about converting their website to Ruby on Rails led me to [CDBaby](http://cdbaby.com/) a few months ago, but I hadn't bought anything from them until last weekend. They deal exclusively in independent music, and all their music is DRM free. A large portion of the price for the music goes directly to the artist, so if you want to support independent music and those who make it, this is a fantastic choice. Large labels give hardly any of the profits to the artist.

I'm a big fan of Portishead, so the first thing I try when I look at a new online music store is to find artists similar to them. [Pandora](http://pandora.com) hasn't done that good a job (though I think they did lead me to Sneaker Pimps), but CDBaby gave me several choices, especially a Toronto-area band, Undadogg. I bought their album and followup EP on high quality MP3.

It downloaded easily, and their customer support department was very responsive by email, even on a Saturday, when I had a question. They remember what you download and can always download it again for free.

Sometimes, though, I want major label stuff. This last weekend I tried out [Amazon's MP3](http://amazon.com) download service. I wanted to get Radiohead's "Pablo Honey" because it was bugging me playing "Creep" all the time on Rock Band and not having the album it came from. And just because I have no thoughts of my own and jump on every bandwagon I can, I got the Decemberist's "Crane Wife".

I do all my browsing on my Linux box and of course my music is stored there, but to buy albums (as opposed to individual tracks, apparently), you need to use their Music Download application. Which would even register your tracks with Windows Media Player and iTunes!

Well, since I use neither application, and really am a little ambivalent about being registered for stuff with applications which report back to the Home Planet about what you play, I decided to just try and see if I could just download the tracks the way I download everything else, with Bittorrent Firefox.

I got a .AMZ file. Whee. So like, where's the music?

I ended up having to install their little application on my Vista-using laptop. I couldn't download the .AMZ file again -- apparently, though they remember what you bought so they can make recommendations for you, if you try to download it a second time, they ask if you really want to PURCHASE IT AGAIN.

Um. No, I bought it already. YOU KNOW I bought it already. Why can't I download it again for free?

I copied the .AMZ file from my Linux box to my laptop, downloaded the tracks, and copied them back to Linux.

I was kinda annoyed, though, that I cannot download those tracks again without paying for them again.

So:

[Sony Connect](http://ebookstore.sony.com/): moderate selection, competitive prices, lets you re-download stuff you own: B

[CD Baby](http://cdbaby.com/): independent music only, a little expensive, lets you re-download stuff you own, good customer support: B+

[Amazon MP3s](http://amazon.com): good selection, competitive prices, must repay for stuff you own, must install a "helper" program to download albums which does not work on Linux even under WINE: C

