# TV: Lost season 4 tonight, Jericho season 2 Feb. 12

"Lost" returns to television tonight for the seven weeks of its fourth season. At the close of season three, we saw that Jack and Kate, at least, had managed to escape the island in a "flash forward", but Jack was desperate to get back, ranting that they were not meant to leave the island.

Charlie had died while bravely saving the lives of others, and rescue seemed imminent... but were the rescuers who they claimed to be?

Lots of mysteries, and you'll want to watch from the beginning to get up to speed on all the plots. I've been reading a bunch of spoilers, that I won't repeat here, but this is looking to be a pretty fantastic season, and VERY fast moving, especially now that the flashbacks and current plots will be joined with flash forwards that show what *will* happen.

---

I recently finished watching Jericho's first season, the story of a United States that has been destroyed by a simultaneous terrorist nuclear attack on 22 US cities, which, at the Season 1 closer, seemed to have been masterminded by the Department of Homeland Security. 

I cannot recommend this series highly enough. It's probably the last example of the long-arc drama that brought us Lost and Heroes, and was saved by the thousands of dedicated fans who wrote in demanding a second season.

The first season is on DVD, and CBS the Sci-Fi channel will be running the first season again leading up to the second in order to catch people up. *Starting Feb. 11th, see the comments for more.*

There is quality TV out there and when we find it we have to support it.

