# Jericho, Lost, American Idol and my first DoG raid on EQ2

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-02-13 10:25:13*

You can get a sense for how popular a show is by how many people are downloading it. That's as direct correlation of interest as you're likely to get.

Using the most popular tracker (I may go back and sum up all trackers), Jericho had about 2400 seeds and leeches this morning. By comparison, Lost s04ep01 had over 5000, and Lost s04ep02 had about 3000.

That's pretty strong for a show that was canceled and resurrected, I think.

If I remember, I'll write a scraper to grab this data for more accurate figures. Jericho itself is kinda skewed down, because apparently there is a bootleg of the first three or four episodes floating around, so people are downloading that instead.

I definitely don't condone that. Watch the show on the TV, then, if it's worth watching again, grab it. That way the advertisers get their viewers and the show gets money to continue. We WANT that for the shows we like.

It was my first time watching CBS; I didn't know what channel it was, I had to look it up. There was some show with weird people with scary hair ending as I tuned in. What's up with that... looked like some reality show for teens like MTV used to (and may still) show. 

I was watching Hollywood week on American Idol. They play with instruments (meh) but NO GROUP SONGS? That was my FAVORITE part of last year's show. Nobody really stands out for me, except the guy who had the guts to sing Freddy Mercury -- and nailed it. Right then, he became my favorite.

---

I couldn't fully watch any TV at all last night (hence why I am downloading Jericho) as I was raiding for my first time with Delusions of Grandeur. I had ACT running to keep track of my parse, as I sensed, rightly I think, that the officers will be watching it as well. We were on Overking, a fight with a lot of adds where AE is king. I don't have a 'blue' AE, and so my damage was hovering between 300-400 most of the night, and for one parse only, over 650.

That's a far cry from the 1500 they expect and the 2K they are hoping for.

Before the raid, I went with a guild group to the Court of Korocust and picked up two more harvests for my epic. Afterward, we did Vault of the Eternal Sleeper for someone's epic (I parsed over 1600 on the boss, YAY, show them I CAN do DPS when I have a target that sticks around more than five seconds).

Afterward, I switched to Dera and healed for an epic hit in Skyfire and another in Maiden's. I won a master somewhere along the line, not for a class I have. I'll probably end up giving it to a guildie. It would just be wrong to keep it if someone needed it, though I need to raise cash to buy troub masters somehow.

I'm concerned that my DPS won't be high enough on the raids to come for them to keep me. Overking has the waves of adds that I parse poorly on. Venril Sathir fears so I'll be running off a lot. Leviathon is largely a ranged fight. I hope they raid somewhere I can really let loose before my vote comes up.

