#HKO: Want to test Hello Kitty? Make a video!#

You can't just sign up for the Hello Kitty Online beta and expect to get in. Oh, no. You need to make a video explaining why you should be chosen. Here's the email I got:



> 
Thank you for subscribing to Hello Kitty Online closed beta!

As much as we would like to accommodate all our subscribers, there are only a limited number of accounts to give out. We would like to pick best people to test the game, so this is your chance to tell us why you should be one of the chosen applicants. Here's how you can get an account:

 1. Create an account in SanrioTown.com and log-in.
 2. Go to Dream Studio and create a video answering the question "Why do you think you should be selected for the closed beta testing?"..
 3. The length of the video should be at least 15 seconds / 3 slides.
 4. Include "mmorpg" in the video's tags.
 5. After saving the video, use the "Send video" function at the lower right corner of the page. Input the email address that you've used to subscribe for the closed beta account in the "Personal message" field, and send it to mmorpg @ hellokitty.com.
 6. Multiple entries are allowed.

All submissions should be sent by 9 March 2008, 23:59 Hong Kong time. You can check out the Dream Studio tutorial (English / Chinese) for help on how to make your video. SanrioTown reserves the right to pick the earliest and best videos based on our own judgment.

SanrioTown reserves the right to pick the earliest and best videos based on our own judgment. Don't forget to check the Hello Kitty online game site and the official HKO blog for updates.

Hurry! The number of slots is really limited, so be sure to make those videos as soon as possible. Screening will run on a "first come first serve" basis, so don't miss out on this chance to get a closed beta account! Good luck!



So off a-video-making I go... I'll post whatever I come up with here....

I know, you all think I am KIDDING about Hello Kitty Online.

I'm not. I'm deadly serious.

