#Rock Band Dream Setlist#

Cyanbane [challenged me](http://www.cyanbane.com/post/2008/02/Top-10-Rockband-TrackDLC-Wishlist.aspx) and other Rock Band-enabled bloggers to come up with our "Top 10" songs we'd like to see on Rock Band.

I have way more than ten songs I'd like to play on rock band, but I came up with ten that all are built around guitar-bass-drum-vocals, should be challenging enough to be interesting but not so hard they can't be played or sung, and cover a fairly wide range of years. I couldn't find a lot of the newer things in my collection on "imeem", but then, most of the newer stuff I listen to wouldn't be interesting on Rock Band.

So; enjoy. And if you have Rock Band and a blog, post your list, too and link back here or to Cyanbane's page.

I didn't notice at first that Cyan or his wife had chosen a Veruca Salt song. I swear I did it by coincidence! Sure, it's their big hit, but it's a great song (and a cool video too).

Sneaker Pimps is one of those weird bands that transcend style. They have a bizarre history. "Sick" is one of their more normal songs.

I love the drumming in Steely Dan songs, so I had to have one in here. Most of their songs feature Donald Fagen's keyboards; Reeling in the Years is heavy with Walter Becker's guitar and is easy to sing besides.

Agent Orange's "Everything Turns Grey" I won't apologize for. It's a good, fast, driving rock song. I first heard of Agent Orange through a Bowling for Soup song, looked them up and hey! They're GOOD!

"I Don't Believe in Love" wasn't my first choice for a song off Queensryche's "Operation: Mindcrime", but it's one of the few songs off the album that doesn't deal with drugs, murder, sex or religion.

"What I Got" by Sublime -- another song everyone can just sing along to. Every set list needs a song like that.

"The Boys of Summer" by The Ataris. The Ataris take this old Don Henley song and make it move.

What Tull song could I put here? I wanted "Heavy Horses", but listening to it, I didn't see how it could really work. "Teacher" is still famous enough that people will have heard it, easy enough to play, and a nice change.

Any RB set list from me will contain a BOC song. "Hot Rails to Hell" was my daughter's favorite when she was 7. I warp my kids young. As a song, it moves well, has fun lyrics and it isn't another Buck Dharma ballad. This is BOC at their hottest.




