#What's the big deal about open betas, anyway?#

Today, the Age of Conan open beta opens. And people are fibrillating over it, slavering, EAGER to download a game most of them will have forgotten about in six months. But not today. Today, it brings meaning to their lives. Today the sun is shining right on them and the birds are singing because, today, they can play a new video game.

People are not only accepting of marketing, they willingly dive right in. Even though each and every one of them knows that if they really wanted a quality game experience, they'd pick up the game a month or two after it launches, when the rush is off, the game is stable, and it's clear if the game is really awesome or just meh. Something you can't really tell when ten thousand people are lagging the beta servers.

We computer fans have a long history of falling prey to hype. Remember the "[Midnight Madness](http://www.monitor.ca/monitor/issues/vol5iss12/feature1.html)" spectacle Microsoft orchestrated around the release of Windows 95? Nothing was going to stop those people from buying an OPERATING SYSTEM at midnight. So they could be first to... what, exactly? Nobody really knew. They got over it pretty fast, waking up, wondering what all the fuss was about.

There was no fuss. Just hype. Software marketers have become masters at building hype. Age of Conan, Warhammer Online... If you can somehow get a player to make an emotional connection that can entirely bypass the rational part of their brains... well, you've made a SALE. 

Because, you know what you're going to do in AoC, and Warhammer Online? That's right. You're going to make a character, kill stuff, level, loot corpse, repeat. The same grind you see in every other MMO you ever played. It's the *same game*. 

If you were buying a car, you wouldn't trade in your perfecly serviceable car for another just because it looked shiny and new.

Oh wait. Yeah, people do that all the time. Because Marketing WORKS. Marketing's entire purpose is to make you WANT something. Build that emotional connection. You see that SUV rampaging through the mountains and fields and say -- yeah, I'd like to be able to just drive around in mountains and fields and stuff instead of driving to work every day. And then drive their shiny new SUV into work every day. Dream realized. No change.

You won't become an axe-swinging barbarian by playing Conan. We're all just geeks behind keyboards, performing repetitive actions for no rewards, wasting time likely better spent doing something that would make a positive difference in our lives.

But hey, I guess if marketing can bring meaning to our lives and convince us that sitting for hours behind keyboards performing repetitive actions for no reward is actually something pretty fantastic, then who am I to say different?

Rock on, Conan dudes. You have six months to do it all over again for Warhammer and Wrath of the Lich King.

Marketers everywhere rejoice.

(Full disclosure: I waited two months after EQ launched in 1999 to buy it, a year after WoW launched to buy it, and I bought EQ2 the first day it was out. And I didn't wait in line for Win95. That would have been silly.)
