# Some kind of stupid

I remember level 44. On my first character, my druid Etha, it almost certainly happened in the pits and warrens of Nagafen's Lair, ridding the place of its kobold problem. On Tipa, I remember that level well; it was in the Dreadlands, and I was so excited because it meant I would soon be able to get Velk's groups. Brita, my cleric -- she was named Dera then -- made 44 in Kaesora. We owned that place.

Tipa the ranger, she who accidentally made levels 42 and 43 in Blightfire Moors, leveled to 44 in Kurn's Tower.

Yes, that level 10-20 dungeon in the Field of Bone.

Call it a halfling's luck... the kind where you just know Bristlebane is lurking around, snickering.

I wanted to level my shroud up to its second level so I could do decent dps tomorrow. I've not only passed the level cap for the Friday group, I have backed up, mooned it, and zipped off again blowing exhaust fumes in its face and tossing beer bottles at it from the broken back window. The shroud can help by letting me play at a lower level, but the first levels of the shrouds are not that powerful. My eventual goal is to unlock the fourth level, the minotaur berserker. It should be awesome. But by then, we'll probably be at 51 and can actually turn off adventure xp.

Anyhow, so I leveled the shroud to 24% in Blightfire, gaining two levels. Tonight, I was going to be super clever, shroud down to level 10, and just play with the skeletons in Kurn's for awhil, aided with temperance and a druid damage shield. Everything went fine, and after about an hour and a half, I had unlocked the rogue shroud.

So I gated back to PoK, removed it and... Did you know Lower Guk is a good place to go at level 44? It's through Upper Guk, apparently. I'd dinged once more.

I'm going to have to live in a kobold suit for WEEKS because of this. WEEKS.

