#Bloggers of ye elder games, WRU?#

I don't know how many people come looking for EverQuest blogs, but there are darn few in the blogosphere that actually cover events in EQ from a player's perspective. Aside from those bloggers in Nostalgia, and the occasional EQ-oriented post from Loral at Mobhunter.com, I can't find any.

For that matter, where are the DAoC blogs? The Asheron's Call blogs? The Ultima Online blogs?

Come ON. I played DAoC but not those other games. I would LOVE to hear about current play in these older games, but never anything in blogs. It has been explained to me that "back in the day", discussion of these games was done via official or community forums, cuz blogs did not exist.

Well. They exist NOW.

Is there nobody working through Shadowbane since the reboot that blogs about it? Anyone restarting on DAoC's "Old Frontier" server who is giving the world a play-by-play? 

I mean, come on. I'm talking to you people who still play the Elder Games, the ones from BW -- Before World of Warcraft. (and as an aside, we should mark game release dates like that -- EQ1 would be released 5BW, Ultima Online 6BW, EQ2 0AW, etc). You UO fans, would it kill you to take a screenshot of your adventures on a day and paste it into a free Wordpress or Blogger page?

I LOVE hearing players talk about games I don't play, since I only have time for a couple but have a huge interest in MMOs in general. I never even got to play UO because I thought it looked so ancient next to EQ.

So anyway, all ye Players of the Elder Games... let's have some blogs, cuz I want to read your adventures.

And hey, fellow EQ players... I know NOTHING about what it's like to play in The Buried Sea or Secrets of Faydwer expansions. Cough up some blog posts about them, please. I ask as a fellow player who hopes one day to see these wonders :)

