# Slave to marketing.

I almost -- ALMOST -- bought Guitar Hero: Aerosmith this weekend, for the PS3. And I probably would have, if I'd gone there Sunday instead of Saturday. Games for the PS3 are $60, the new price point, and I'd have had to buy a guitar controller for the PS3 as well.

I have two guitar controllers for the Xbox 360 and two more for the PS2. My desire to invest in more guitar controllers is precisely zero.

And yet, I wanted to find a game to play for my PS3. It's great for watching Doctor Who on the big screen ("The Stolen Earth" -- AMAZING.) but I feel really frustrated that I haven't been able to find even one game for the PS3 worth the $60.

I thought Guitar Hero: Aerosmith would be the one. But it wasn't for sale when I went. I played the Guitar Hero demo system they had set up near the Aerosmith display, thinking it was a preview for the new game. I realized, though, as I worked through the set list, that this was Guitar Hero III, a game I'd played through once on the PS2, but was so turned off by the awful boss battles that I never played it again.

I went home, plugged the PS*2* in, and played Guitar Hero III again. I was AWFUL. Absolutely HORRID.

What followed was at least an hour or two of calibrating the game for the new widescreen TV. Ahhhhh.... I could play again.

I mean, when you can't even hit the notes at the very slowest speed in practice mode -- it's not you.

Anyway, I wanted the game for the PS3, but it's the exact same game as for the PS2, and I already have the controllers for the PS2 (and they remain my favorite of all the controllers). The picture was a little fuzzy but the music was just as loud.

I WANT to believe. I WANT to believe that the $400 lump of metal and plastic beneath my TV is worth more than just a REALLY GOOD media controller to someone who isn't into shooters and war games. (PS3 fans go WTF? What other kinds of games ARE there?).

My search for a game that I can show people that will justify the PS3 continues.

