#Why I'm not playing WAR *right now*#

Well, first of all, I'm not playing WAR because I'm at work.

But even when not working, I have a bunch of games I'm already playing. And its exciting stuff for all of them!

* EverQuest -- Nostalgia FTW. You know, I don't think we've ever had an official group xp night in the same zone twice. The only time we revisited a place was Sol B and Permafrost when we were farming the dragons. And we have still only seen a small fraction of the zones in the game. Friday, we grouped in Plane of Storms, Warslik Woods and Dagnor's Cauldron for various things -- all new zones for us on a group night. Small fraction of total zones. It's wild how big EQ is.

* EverQuest II -- Getting the guild ready for guild halls is going to take more time at the loom to get my level up to the point where I can go on crafting missions as either tailor or jeweler. Plus, the construction of the griffin towers and teleport spires happened while I was off in EQ and World of Warcraft respectively, so this is one world event I am determined not to miss. Also, I need to finish the Veksar quests. My group bailed out at the last mob for no good reason, even though I could easily keep the boss mob mezzed while the group killed the adds. They just decided to leave.

* Vanguard -- Vanguard got a new game update yesterday, haven't had a chance to see if Tipa the Startled Halfling Bard and Henry Stout the Astonished Disciple have gotten their eyelids back. Plus, I need to finish Stout Henry goes to War. Last week's craziness pushed everything back a week.

* Guild Wars: Nightfall -- I actually have played this some, though I didn't write about it because it went terribly. So I have to go back and try the next mission again. It wasn't the game's fault. My head just wasn't in gaming last week.

* Wizard 101 -- I love this game. Meeting Gnewt and his wife, and then right after making a new friend and doing a VERY TOUGH instance together that took a LOT of teamwork, strategy and deck management, rekindled my love for the game. It's an MMO which does things differently. That's what we WANT, right? If only they had an adults-only server that drops the kid protection features.

* Metaplace -- I was just offered the opportunity to be part of the beta test. I've been waiting for this for a long time, and in fact if Spore hadn't taken over my life this week, Metaplace surely would have.

* City of Heroes/Villains -- When Issue 13 comes out. I am going to HAVE to take a few days and see if my dream of becoming a pro game designer could be more than a dream by WRITING some missions. Can I craft a great story and also design interesting levels and challenges? Here's my chance to find out.

So which of these do I give up for WAR?

I don't have time for the games I am ALREADY playing. I wanted to start writing a series on free-to-play games, but the three hours or so a night I have to myself are already overscheduled, so I have no chance to do more... even though I want to.


