# EQ2: Cloth vests mean more fashion choices for casters

In either this latest game update, GU49, or the previous one, SOE added new recipes for tailors so that cloth-wearing classes, the ones whose clothing choices have previously been limited pretty much to all-covering burkas, can have a little more flexibility with their look.

Last night I stood in front of a loom and looked at some of these new options.

Some of the new outfits are ungodly ugly, at least on halflings. But a couple really stuck out. I must point out, though, that the claim in the GU48 patch notes that all outfits would be complete doesn't seem to be the case. If you could previously only make four pieces of a particular suit, you should now be able to make all of them. This wasn't the case with the tier 1 Tranquil sets, below. Both were missing boots and bracers, and neither the hat nor the shoulder pieces had a graphic.





|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 
Pristine Tranquil Sackcloth armor |
 
Pristine Tranquil Threadbare armor |



Both are fairly unique looks. The Sackcloth reminds me of the tier 7 cloth armor out of Castle Mistmoore, while the Threadbare looks *almost* like a gi.

A note about the screenshots. They were both taken at max quality in Gorowyn, with the multicore fix working. I was getting about 15 fps at max settings -- in Gorowyn, long second only to Neriak as a difficult place for my computer. Unfortunately, running at max settings for very long crases EQ2 for me after it runs out of memory. But it's a huge improvement over what I had before, and for me, is the best improvement that came with the latest patch.

