#Headmaster Ambrose hints at Wizard 101 expansion#

After months of speculation over the school of magic Ambrose, Headmaster of Wizard 101's Ravenwood Academy, prefers, Ambrose has revealed that he is a [master of all schools of magic](https://www.wizard101.com/site/posts/list/2471.ftl).

But his current studies go beyond the Inner magics (Life, Death and Myth) and the Outer magics (Fire, Ice and Storm) to the Astral magics (Sun, Moon and Stars).

I think we can be pretty certain that renegade necromancer Malistaire would be pretty interested in exploiting the power of the darkness between the stars.

---

KingsIsle hasn't started whispering the magic words "expansion" yet, but with hints like this, they must be thinking about it. Many players are concerned that the Dragonspyre patch is taking so long. The last word on it from KI was that the Halloween events should 'give us something to do while waiting for Dragonspyre'. This has the buzz in Wizard City saying Dragonspyre would be released right after the Halloween event, which ends tomorrow. The November newsletter, though, remains mum on it, and if it doesn't come this month, then it's unlikely to come in December, when they will likely be doing a Winter holiday-themed event.

That brings us to January for the earliest date for Dragonspyre if they don't want to step on holiday events. By that time, the vast majority of regular players will be high enough level to go to Dragonspyre, but it's easy to believe those people who have been waiting for the fifth world for months, by then, may have already moved on.

