#EQ2 RMT discussion#

**Chris**: I read an eq2 hotfix.. It didn't mention a particular server:

STATION CASH

Station Cash is a new virtual currency from SOE that has been created to allow for the purchase of premium in-game items within EverQuest II.

To get started, access the "Marketplace" from the EQII Window within the game. Click on the "Add Funds" button to purchase Station Cash to fund your wallet and then select items to purchase.

**Brenda**: OH! This is NEW TO ME.

Argh.

* Tipa rushes home to find out what it's all about…

**Chris**: If they have some really cool hats, I will cry from joy.

**Brenda**: And here I am sinking money into DOMO… :P

**Chris**: The suspense is killing me. I have been fighting the urge to buy a box of boosters (too bad it's xmas time) in an attempt to get a box of classless hats. If they have cool hats, I will be verry happy. Given that it isn't a little out of control pricewise.

**Brenda**: Yeah, I had a lot on my plate tonight, this just piles more on. But it's a good hurt :)

**Chris**: My guess is that it will be stuff like you find in lon loot cards. I can't see them putting in stuff that would cause balance issues. I would be happy with appearance, mount and house items though. Folks are selling loot cards for tons of ingame plats. I imagine it opened SOE's eyes. I would much rather spend $10 on a hat than 150 plat.

**Brenda**: Loot cards have become an important part of both the EQ and EQ2 communities. Suddenly selling them for bucks would crash player economies AS WELL as harm their own game, LoN.

I suppose they could be doing that, but it would seem awfully short-sighted.

I financed my gear in EQ1 as I leveled up by selling the LoN booster packs that dropped where I won the roll. 45-60K plat each pack. EQ requires LOTS of money, where else would a newbie get that much? LoN booster packs. And only because loot cards had such value.

Personally, I hope they sell Masters.

**Chris**: I just took a peek (quick lunch break)

Many types of potions..
2 appearance slot armour sets
House pets
Regular pets

