#Will RMT make SOE's Station Access a relic of the past?#

Last year, Massively's Michael Zenke interviewed SOE's John Smedley about, among other things, [the future of SOE's all-inclusive Station Access plan](http://www.massively.com/2008/01/14/a-ces-interview-with-soe-ceo-john-smedley-pt-2/):


> John Smedley: Sure. I don't mind this being public. We are having ongoing discussions inside the company about making station access an all-inclusive pass. Everything that we have, you get as a customer. Station Access subscribers would get every expansion pack for every game, as well as future expansions for every game as well. For the same price now, without raising the price. We have two problems, though. One: we have third parties involved in this. LucasArts, for example, will have to buy off on this, as would others. Second is the less obvious one: Promising future stuff is the meat of the problem. We haven't found the right way to word things yet. To be honest other priorities have gotten in the way. That's what we want to offer people.



In the past year, Flying Lab's "Pirates of the Burning Sea" was added to Station Access, but none of the things mentioned were ever mentioned after this. We EQ and EQ2 players STILL have to sign up for the Station Players Advanced Character plan -- at a buck per month per feature -- to see detailed information about our own characters. 

With RMT for sure being a big part of upcoming MMOs The Agency and Free Realms, and given that both those and DC Universe Online will also be released on the PS3, where monthly subscription plans are unknown, it really looks like the business model for SOE's MMOs is moving away from the monthly subscription plan.

If having the Station Access won't give you any sort of benefit to the newer MMOs, what is the reason to keep it, aside from currently actively playing three or more SOE subscription-based games?

Assuring Station Access subscribers that their monthly investment in SOE games will be valuable going forward should be a top priority. Otherwise, players in these cash-strapped times will be looking at their expenses, and wondering if they really are getting $30 worth of gaming from their subscription.

