# XFire Plugin

**The current version of XFire Stats Plugin is 0.4, and requires PHP 4.0.2 or greater.**

v0.1 -- initial test
v0.2 -- added Widget Title option
v0.3 -- curl\_setopts\_array unavailable before PHP 5.0, use curl\_setopt for PHP 4 compatibility.
v0.4 -- typo in the linkage into XFire for the games.
v0.5 -- first alpha release, added 'now playing' box, fixed bad link for Wizard 101, fixed parsing bug for games with apostrophes in the title.
v0.6 -- Rewrite the way options are saved.
v0.7 -- Pages from XFire.com are cached for five minutes to ease server load on busy blogs. Fall back to vanilla file transfer to get XFire data if libcurl is not installed.

**Issues**

The plugin's guess as to XFire's page for a game is sometimes wrong.

Announcing the [XFire Stats Wordpress Plugin](http://westkarana.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/xfirestats.zip). This plugin adds a widget that you can place on the sidebar of your Wordpress blog to show your gaming stats for the past week -- the title and time spent, sorted by decreasing time.

This is the very first release of this, my very first plugin, and feedback is definitely encouraged.

To install:
1. Right click on [this link](http://westkarana.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/xfirestats.zip) and choose "Save Link As..." and name it 'xfirestats.zip'.

3. Unzip this file to find 'xfirestats.php'

5. Upload 'xfirestats.php' to the plugins folder of your Wordpress installation -- http://*yourblog.com*/wp-content/plugins/ might be the spot, but there will definitely be other plugins there. Automatic installation is coming.
- Go to your Wordpress dashboard. Choose Plugins, and activate XFire Stats.

- In your dashboard, choose Appearance and then Widgets.

- Drag the XFire Stats widget where you want it to go.

- Edit it, and enter your XFire Id and, optionally, a title for the widget (otherwise the title will be XFire Weekly Stats).

- Save changes.

- See that it appears correctly in your blog.




Enjoy! Please send me an email at brendahol@gmail.com if you have any trouble, reactions, suggestions, untapped rage, etc.
