# Wizard101: School House press release

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-12-14 08:02:19*

This just in from Professor Greyrose:


> **School Themed Castles & Lands have arrived in the Spiral, along with Felix Navidad and lots of festive decorations!**

Do you want to live in a tower of Fire, a tree house or a Jules Verne-inspired Storm house? Now you can! Next time you log in to Wizard101 the game, click the SHOP button on your screen and look for the new house tab. There you can see new Castles & Lands for each of the Ravenwood Schools; Storm, Myth, Life, Ice, Fire, Death and Balance. Each Castle can be previewed with the small magnifying glass icon that appears when you select a house in that tab.

These houses will have space for 250 items outside and 250 items inside! These houses do count towards your total of three houses per character, so players who already have three houses will have to sell one in order to purchase one of these School themed houses. 

Coincidentally, Felix Navidad has finally arrived in the Spiral, better late than never! He brings with him an assortment of items to purchase for the Yuletide season, and he will only be in the Spiral for a short time. Like all our other holiday shopkeepers, he can be found near the fountain in the Wizard City Shopping District, and decorations can be found in the Ravenwood Commons.

For more information about small changes and updates that were made, please see our [December Patch Notes](https://www.wizard101.com/game/community/patchnotes).



