# LAID OFF

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-01-08 11:57:18*

Surya laid me off this morning. And after all the nice things I said about them!



I wasn't *totally* surprised -- they don't need two IT people when they are downsizing across the board. With my boss back from Bali, they no longer need me to cover his tasks while he is away. And the way my direct boss has been acting since even before he returned from Bali, I could tell something was up. I figured if they were going to lay me off, they would do it after his next Bali trip, but... I guess not.

I've been wanting to move somewhere a little more technical anyway, but I really hate to leave a good thing. And though they shorted me on hours and the pay wasn't great, I stand by my "Thankful" post. They DID give me a job when it seemed nobody else would. They DID give me a massively huge variety of things to do and left it to me to decide how to best do them.

What does this mean? Well, it means that Sigil, SOE, and Raph Koster's new company will be hearing from me (again, in the cases of the first two), since all three are local. UCSD will again find me on their doorstep. Ally's mother-in-law (my co-grandmother? Is there a word for that?) says she may know of some positions at her company up in Temecula. My sister Hillary is looking at some Boston-area opportunities for me, since that's where she lives and works. And there's a certain new Boston-area games company that will be getting my resume because hey, I'm free to live life in a new direction and if you never go for the long-shots, you never win.
