# 7DRL Day 3: Inventory, Messages, Improved Targeting

For those people who don't care about the 7DRL game design challenge, don't worry -- things will be back to normal this weekend. I've just finished day 3 of the seven days, and I've almost finished the basic mechanics.

Today I added the inventory system and integrated it into the targeting window. You can only wield one item at a time; I'm not going to bother with armor and that stuff. If you want to use something, you will be holding it.

The targeting window show (in order of preference): What you're targeting on the floor in the current room; what you are holding; or you. It shouldn't be possible to have a blank targeting window. It looks weird when it's empty.

Yesterday I had the targeting window and stuff in a gray box. Today I removed the gray box and just put the stuff on the side of the graph paper. I found a readable calligraphic font for the messages which I like very much. This game is not ending up very much like I had envisioned it, but I am constantly tweaking the game to make it look better and be more playable.

I have combat to add, and that will be tomorrow -- combat, killing, monster loot, monster respawning and the ability to descend levels. I should probably put health bars somewhere. And it would be a good time to add the "you're dead" screen.

I have a LOT of ideas for how I would do this game if I had more than seven days. But right now, I am just focused on finishing this and not making it too complicated. I've looked at previous 7DRL entries. Most of them are VERY simple, and I have to learn by their example and keep THIS simple.


