#LotRO's Fatal Error#

In Lord of the Rings Online, you don't need a healer... until you *do*. And then, who are you going to get? Well, you could use potions, but they have a 1 minute cooldown, are fairly expensive, and don't heal much.

Only two classes have a group heal -- minstrels and captains. The captain has a small heal (about 160 points at the current level cap of 15, vs a player's typical hit points of 700-800 at that same level), followed by 30 seconds of **6** (yes, s-i-x six) hit points every five seconds. And this wimpy heal is on a one minute timer *and* can only be cast when a mob has just died.

A captain's heals are only adequate when nobody really needs a heal.

That leaves *only* the minstrel with adequate healing for a group.

*No* other game has so little healing available. LotRO's close cousin, World of Warcraft, has several -- both factions have priests, druids, shaman and paladin, all of whom can easily heal a normal group and specced correctly (in the case of non-priests), some harder instances. EQ1 has clerics, druids, shaman and paladins, all of whom can heal a group (paladins maybe not so much in some encounters). EQ2 has a dizzying number of healing classes. Even DAoC had at least two per faction.

This is one of those "OMG, what were they *thinking*?" things. And it *will* hurt LotRO even more than the game's linearity.

LotRO needs to upgrade the captain's heal so that they can heal a normal group with their heals-over-time. Leave minstrels the masters of quick, instant heals, but take some pressure off them. In a game with three tank-able classes (guardians, champions and captains), having just one heal class is... insane... and will block groups from progress. Already minstrels are in such desperate need that many instance/epic groups in LotRO just simply can't continue past a certain point.

As a player with a long history of playing healers, I can say with certainty: that sort of stress will drive people away from playing minstrels and away from the game.

Also, throw some healing the lore-master's way. A single target heal that drains health from the lore master and passes it to the target, necromantic-like, would be nice.

*Okay, I got that LM thing from a LM who said she would like a way to heal a group. So I had bad information. It turns out they do have some heals. It also turns out burglars can trigger group heals but I have never grouped with a burglar and wasn't sure they existed past the newbie instance.*

*There may well be healing beyond what I have encountered thus in the game. But none of the fellowships I have been in used anything beyond minstrel heals; one used a captain's heal but we died horribly. All other fellowships showed no healing. So; if there is healing, it is so obscure or hard to use that it is not used. At least to this point.*

*The fact remains: Minstrels, rightly or wrongly, are too much in demand for healing, and the Captain heal should be upgraded to a useful heal over time. in my opinion.*
