#You say you want a Revolution?#

Well, you know, we all want to change the world.

This morning (being a coward and waiting until few people were on), I left my guild of more than a year on EQ2, Revolution. (I did post on the guild message board and tell the people who were online why I was leaving, so it wasn't 100% ninja. Maybe 75% ninja.) This is the first time I have left an *active* guild since I left A Twist of Fate for Crimson Eternity back in, oh, 2002.

I just don't leave guilds. And now I have. Why?



Two reasons. The guild to which I applied is an old guild from Faydark back before Faydark merged with Befallen. It has a heck of a rep (both good and bad!), and they have just rebuilt themselves from some sort of slump. This means most of the people there will be fairly new, and I'll have a chance to become a part of a team instead of 'that noob bard'.

So that was opportunity. The second is... OMG KUNARK IS COMING! I'm sorry, but... Kunark means so much to me. To have that expansion come out and *not* be killing Trak or Venril or Drusilla or Talendor (oh, nm, he's in Kingdom of Sky) or Phara'Dar or all the wondrous places that made Kunark such a delight in EQ1.... well, I need to be there. Revolution is a guild of great people, and when they raid they are motivated and professional, but it's just not at the level I would like to be, the kind of place I was in EQ1 on Stromm and Erollisi Marr.

Tonight, if all goes well, I'll be raiding with my new guild... I'm anxious, nervous, hoping I won't screw up, hoping I can show them what a troubador can do for a raid, hoping my real life gives me enough time to raid and that the guild gives me enough time to have a real life...

I can do this. I *am* a good bard. I might not be fantastic at certain other classes, but I'm fairly confident about this one. My gear is good enough, my spells are mastered or adept 3... I'm a little light on the longer quests but hopeful I'll be able to find people in the new guild at or near the same spot so that I, too, can have my Qeynos thingie.

It does mean I'll be playing on Befallen exclusively. I've given up on LotRO and EQ1, and PvP on Nagafen is just perfect to play casually (same game after all, /camp Tipara and I'm there, /camp Dina and I'm back).

It also means.... hardware upgrades. I've been using the same computer to play EQ2 since it launched, and I don't like always having to ramp the graphics down to raid. It makes it tough to get those good raid screenshots :P LotRO at times was unplayable. It's time to upgrade.

To any from Revolution who may be reading this... it's nothing personal. I just want to raid.

 
