#The Oyster Boys vs the Space Truckers#

Blue Oyster Cult opening for Deep Purple here in Connecticut? Brilliant! This will be my fifth time seeing BOC, but the first for Deep Purple.

This will be the first time for my son; this is the first time I haven't seen BOC in a bar, and he's never been 21 in his life.

I know BOC will play their mega-hits, and I know as well that they'll open with the main theme to Blade Runner leading into "Stairway to the Stars"... I hope they skip "In Thee" this time. Songs I want to hear: "Astronomy" (duh), "Last Days of May" (sigh), ""When the Old Gods Return" (pleeeeease!), "Harvest Moon" (still luv ya, Buck!)... and if they do "Godzilla", I hope Eric gives it a BIG lead in. They only did "Take Me Away" once since I've seen them, but I loved the opening Eric did for that one as well. Oh, I dunno... I'll love whatever they do... oh yeah, "Veterans of the Psychic Wars", please. I know it's cliche, but its a crowd pleaser. "Cities on Flame", "Seven Screaming Dizbusters"... they did "Golden Age of Leather", complete with the *a capella* opening, once...

Gah... I know they won't do anything off of "Imaginos" (aside from 'Astronomy' and 'Subhuman', which were on "Secret Treaties"), and I *hope* they don't do anything from "Club Ninja", and if they want to do something off "Revolution by Night", they better clear the song with me ahead of time. I'd love to hear at least a couple tracks from "Heaven Forbid" -- they played a couple last time, but since they are opening for Deep Purple, who knows how much time they will have to do anything besides their hits?

I'm not driving all the way down to New Haven for "Don't Fear (the Reaper)" and "Burnin' For You"...

For Deep Purple, hmm... well, I always liked "Lazy" and "Hush". I know my son likes "Smoke on the Water" (doesn't everyone?) and they're certain to play that. I wonder what their current lineup is.
