# City of Heroes: Good vs Evil

*Posted by Tipa on 2006-09-21 10:12:40*

NCSoft kindly sent along a notice that they're [releasing next week](http://www.cityofheroes.com/store/goodversusevil/ "City of Heroes - Good vs Evil") a box containing both the City of Heroes and City of Villains games, for one subscription fee.

I've had World of Warcraft as my "couple of minutes free" game since I stopped playing it full time last spring. But I can't play that game any more. I log in, do the same thing I did with every other character, and log out. Nobody I knew when I was playing still plays (or they have moved to another server). The WoW churn rate is incredible. And yet this is considered the best MMO ever.

But I digress.

With the new expansion coming out, I have to decide to go back to WoW and level my priestess there to 70, join a non-dead guild and spend another three or four months getting current and seeing the new content, or just saying goodbye to WoW and moving on.

I'm thinking seriously of punting WoW and getting this new CoH/CoV box. Now I was getting pretty bored with CoH after it released, but a lot of time has passed and unlike WoW, the newbie experience has changed substantially. I doubt I'll ever see my heroes Narusegawa, Doujinshi Girl or Jade Tiger again (okay, I was in an anime phase at the time). (Naru was as close to an exact copy of Love Hina's Naru Narusegawa as I could make (ill/emp controller); Doujinshi Girl was a black-and-white girl-with-guns manga come to life (blaster); and Jade Tiger was a ninja, naturally (scrapper)).
