Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [August](./westkarana.md)
# If elections in the US were held today...

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-08-07 09:49:40*

Then apparently I'd be voting for Dennis Kucinich. [Pick Your Candidate](http://www.dehp.net/candidate/index.php) pegged him as holding my position on nearly every issue aside from Net Neutrality. [His Wikipedia entry](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kucinich) describes him as a vegan who opposes a knee-jerk military response in the Middle East, is for universal health care in the US, and so on. Good stuff. He's an Ohio representative, and former mayor of Cleveland, so he's got all the experience he needs to do the job. Opposes the Democratic machine when he doesn't agree with it. That makes his shifting opinion of abortion rights (was against it, now for it) seem like a real change of heart than a hearkening to the polls.

Too bad I never heard of him, and his chances of winning the Democratic primary are near zero. Why? Because the media thinks every show should be *American Idol*.

This is how the networks want to run the presidential campaign. Each month, all the remaining candidates get together, and the least popular one would be voted off -- the envelope only being opened after the commercial break, with a lot of dramatic lighting and heightened suspense. "Oh, Ron Paul! You have been marginalized! Now you must enter a dance-off with Mike Huckabee to stay in the race!"

 Eventually two remaining on each side of the stage... Clinton and Obama on one side, with electric blue lighting, and Giuliani and Romney on the other side, bathed in red, singing their hearts out as the phone lines open for your votes, or text the name of your candidate to VOTEUSA if you are on AT&T, the New Cingular.

Politics isn't about choice, it's about making a good dramatic arc, and keeping eyeballs glued to the tube for next week's exciting episode.

 
