Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [August](./westkarana.md)
# That End-of-Summer kind of lazy

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-08-30 15:22:32*

I have (as I look) three half-written articles waiting to be finished... it's been a busy week, and I just haven't been able to finish anything. And so...

Wish I could have gone to Penny Arcade's PAX this past weekend... sounds like a blast to just be around gamers and... play games and stuff. Trade Pokemon, shred Guitar Hero and try Rock Band. I was struck by a note from the [ars technica review](http://arstechnica.com/articles/culture/pax-technica-looking-back-at-penny-arcade-expo-2007.ars/5) of PAX 2007:

> It seems like no one had more fun than Gabe and Tycho themselves, and it proved to me that this was just an excuse to throw a big party for geeks. You and I probably do it all the time: invite some friends over to our house, and play some games.


Yeah... that IS fun... my sister Hillary visited Tuesday, and probably within fifteen minutes of her entering the apartment, I had her strapped into a toy guitar, furiously working through the lead on The Go-Go's "We Got The Beat" from Guitar Hero's "Encore: Rocks the 80s" expansion.  I backed her up on bass.

And Jenn has promised to do vocals and Andrew is going to do drums, so I think we have our Rock Band set.... and it'll beat YOURS to the ground. To... the *ground*. Step up for the Holloway Beatdown. Rawr.

During my morning commute, I usually try to work out puzzles and stuff, or make anagrams from billboards, things like that to make the half hour wade through traffic less tedious.

Today was a good one (imnsho). It went like this.

It's midnight and you have your telescope pointed straight up, and you see something coming at you and you can tell by the blue shift that it's traveling at 99% of the speed of light directly at you, and that it appears to be (amazingly you can tell this) precisely one light year away.

The question is: How long do you have to put your affairs in order and give the Department of Homeland Security long enough to schedule President Bush's photo opportunity before it (whatever "it" is) hits?

 
