Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [March](./westkarana.md)
# XFire Wordpress Plugin -- first release

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-03-26 23:53:14*

Announcing the [XFire Stats Wordpress Plugin](../../../uploads/2009/03/xfirestats.zip). This plugin adds a widget that you can place on the sidebar of your Wordpress blog to show your gaming stats for the past week -- the title and time spent, sorted by decreasing time.

This is the very first release of this, my very first plugin, and feedback is definitely encouraged.

To install:
1. Right click on [this link](../../../uploads/2009/03/xfirestats.zip) and choose "Save Link As..." and name it 'xfirestats.zip'.

3. Unzip this file to find 'xfirestats.php'

5. Upload 'xfirestats.php' to the plugins folder of your Wordpress installation -- http://*yourblog.com*/wp-content/plugins/ might be the spot, but there will definitely be other plugins there. Automatic installation is coming.
- Go to your Wordpress dashboard. Choose Plugins, and activate XFire Stats.

- In your dashboard, choose Appearance and then Widgets.

- Drag the XFire Stats widget where you want it to go.

- Edit it, and entire your XFire Id and, optionally, a title for the widget (otherwise the title will be XFire Weekly Stats).

- Save changes.

- See that it appears correctly in your blog.




Enjoy! Please send me an email at brendahol@gmail.com if you have any trouble, reactions, suggestions, untapped rage, etc.

The most recent version of this plugin will always be at the "XFire Plugin" page linked in the header to this blog.
