Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [February](./westkarana.md)
# Stuff to watch this week: Lost, Jericho, Idol

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-02-11 10:32:50*

Tuesday -- American Idol begins Hollywood week, which winnows the people who made it through the audition process to the twenty-four people who will make it to the actual contest. This year, people are allowed to play instruments. I don't know how this fits into a singing show, but I guess, anything for the ratings.

Also, Jericho season 2 starts. Fans demanded the return of the show, and CBS delivered. I'll be watching!

Thursday, Lost season 4 continues. Two weeks ago, viewers were confusingly dragged all over the place from past to future to present. Last week, we learned more about the freighter crew, and they are incredibly cool. I am officially hooked again. This week, we find out why the freighter people want Ben, and perhaps why Oceanic Airlines faked the finding of doomed Flight 815. But who really knows. Polar bear skeletons found in an archaeological dig in Tunisia -- wearing a Dharma collar? What's up with that...

Thursday, Mur Lafferty posts her final podcast of her novel, [Playing for Keeps](http://playingforkeepsnovel.com), also available as PDFs. In the finale, Keepsie, a bar owner whose super power is that nobody can take what is hers, survives the battle for power between the superhero Academy and the failed heroes trying to bring it down that has come to be centered around Keepsie, her bar, and the cadre of barely-powered superheroes that drink there. Fantastic podcast, excellent story -- catch up on the podcast and be waiting with the rest of us Thursday for the final episode.

I also finally sat down and listened to Brent's Virgin Worlds podcast #100. Hilarious at times, definitely worth a listen, but in the end, it's a three hour present from the MMO podcast community to Brent.

I listen every week, and he deserves all the praise he gets. He has inspired a community.

