Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [February](./westkarana.md)
# GAX Online

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-02-17 12:06:02*

I have no idea what GAX stands for, but it's the first gamer community which doesn't seem to be absolutely dead. I think they've hit upon the magic formula, and hope everyone joins -- already found far more people I know on Gax than on GuildCafe.

So: Go to [GAX Online](http://www.gaxonline.com/), register, write a couple of sentences saying what games you're playing in your new blog, say hi on the live chat bar, and invite Tipa to be your friend :)

Do it now!

## Comments!
---
**Alex** writes: Hi, \r\nWe are building one too, it's called Metaforum and it will not require any 'new blogs', your existing blog is more than enough. :) This is... oh, sorry, it will be available by the end of the next week :) ... the way to organize cross-blog discussions, when people retain a complete control over what they are posting, but at the same time the forum is not spammed like hell as traditional forums are.\r\nAND it's all SEARCHEABLE and search-spam free, because we have our own search engine dedicated to MMORPG and all 'WoW gold cheap!' sites are excluded from it.\r\nStay posted. :)\r\nRegards.
---
**hudson** writes: Tipa: they talk about gax name in latest MOG video cast its based off Gary Gygax
---
**Tipa** writes: Ah :)
---
**Openedge1** writes: I love GAX\r\nGAX loves me...\r\n\r\nAll together...you and me...all so free...\r\nGAXonline.com is for me...\r\n(Lyrics Copyright 2008 Openedge1)\r\n\r\nAnyways. Your right...this place is quite active...and glad to have found it..\r\nNow, more people...sign up...\r\nCheers
---
**mbp** writes: Umm.... Too many flashing lights for me Tipa. I prefer the more sedate pace of blogging. Plus consider that I do most of my internet browsing either at work or at home with my kids looking over my shoulder and I don't think that the "Girls of Gax" section would go down well with either.
---
**Tipa** writes: That girls of Gax thing is wild. Some 3D modeler had way too much time on his hands. Too much of something, anyway.\r\n\r\nYeah, it's flashy. But it's a community. They make it easy to interact, and that's what I like about it. I can post something there and get nearly immediate feedback, a lot different from the far more sedate pace of my main blog. Plus, I feel I can be more casual there.
---
**Tipa** writes: Sorry, Alex, Akismet binned your comment and I just caught it now. I get so much durn spam on this blog that sometimes real comments get lost.\r\n\r\nI'll be looking for news about Metaforum!
