Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [February](./westkarana.md)
# Sympathy for the Daniel

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-02-21 14:27:18*

There's a boy out there, crying in shame because he cannot understand blogs.

He needs all our help.

His name is [Daniel](mailto:k.daniel@msn.com).

And he cannot understand blogs.


> I couldn’t understand some parts of this article rana » EQ2: Nice while it lasted — Clan of Shadows declines the haffer, but I guess I just need to check some more resources regarding this, because it sounds interesting.



He's one of my biggest fans, and he reads everything I write, but there's always some part of my post he can't understand. He always promises to try harder, to do more research, but before he can finish, I write something new and it was all for nothing after all.

It's back to the beginning for poor Daniel.

I am worried, though, that he'll see his name here and eagerly wonder what I'm saying about him, but then get bogged down in all the words and have to leave to do more research.

We're here for you, Daniel.

Don't be a stranger.

## Comments!
---
**Cyanbane** writes: I shouted out, "Who killed the spammers?"\r\n\r\nWhen after all, it was you and me.
---
**Openedge1** writes: Hey..\r\n  At least you get spam...I feel so...left out\r\n\r\n*cries miserably
---
**Tipa** writes: I get hundreds a day. Do you really want to be included?
---
**Cow Nose the 50 Pound Cat** writes: LOL, I get no comments or spam!
---
**Genda** writes: That's something I wouldn't have understood a year or two ago, but alas, poor Daniel seems to be a big reader at my blog too.\r\n\r\nPoor Daniel.
---
**Taymar** writes: Hurray for Askimet. Although that one is quite clever - at first glance, I assumed it was someone who honestly got lost with the references. I like Rana, it's a good nick :)
---
**Tipa** writes: I'm a little concerned with Daniel and his friends (who all appear to come in batches from compromised PCs -- his most recent comment was accompanied by half a dozen fake ads for stuff from the same IP, though not from him). Not because of their spam -- Akismet takes care of most of it -- but because the spamming may be artificially inflating the number of readers reading the blog.
