Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [February](./westkarana.md)
# Blogroll

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-02-28 15:01:59*

I deleted a couple of inactive or entirely dead sites from my blog roll, and added several blogs I have in my feed but didn't have here. If I forgot yours, let me know :P

Typically I don't link to gamer blogs that don't have blog rolls, because I feel that puts a dead end in the little community we form by linking our blogs together. I usually wish people would link back for the same reason :) But it's okay if you don't want to for some reason.

Some people are wary of "link sharing" schemes, where people try to up their position in search engine results by getting a lot of trash blogs to link to their trash blog. Well, I don't make a cent from this blog and don't care where I fall in Google results, so no worries there :)

## Comments!
---
**Taymar** writes: I'm glad you brought this up, it was a well-timed nudge. I didn't originally add one while I got my feet wet but I do like other people's blogrolls!
---
**Cow Nose the 50 Pound Cat** writes: I love your blog, I would be happy to link you if you would be so kind to link me. ^^
---
**Tipa** writes: Both added :)
---
**Wydow** writes: I'm a long time reader of your blog and would appreciate it if you could add a link to my blog: http://wydow.homeip.net/. :)
---
**Tipa** writes: Whoa, nice site! Added to both blogroll and feed!
---
**Cyanbane** writes: /Tag

http://www.cyanbane.com/post/2008/02/Top-10-Rockband-TrackDLC-Wishlist.aspx

(Towards bottom of post)
---
**Tipa** writes: Oooo sounds like fun!
---
**Keen** writes: Our trash barges are already linked. :D
---
**Tipa** writes: That's a disturbing image right there.
---
**A few changes &laquo; Gestalt Mind** writes: [...] few changes This post over at West Karana reminded me of a duty that I haven’t performed for some time.  I knew [...]
---
**Caliga** writes: Link me please Tipa. Don't hate me 'cause I want to play Age of Conan :)
---
**Abriael** writes: Added yours :D looks very good despite the warhammer post :PPPP
Feel free to add me back if you'd like.
---
**Tipa** writes: lol... I don't hate anyone for wanting to play Age of Conan. I just think that by pandering to just one demographic, young men, Funcom is making a game doomed to fail, at least compared to other MMOs. If they had positioned themselves more as a fantasy-based first person shooter, then at least they'd be going for the correct market. But then, do FPS fans really want to do all the grindy MMO things like leveling up? FPSs are all about instant skill-based gameplay. I don't see what market AoC can compete in. But I definitely don't think less of those who would play it :)

As for Warhammer, I like the game, hate the hype :P

Both added :))
---
**Caliga** writes: Thanks Tipa, and the wait for for Warhammer is killing me :(
---
**Abriael** writes: Thankees :D
I'm avoiding being killed by the wait for warhammer by... well... playing the warhammer beta :P

And Rohan online, that's a pretty cute lil game as well
---
**Crookshankz** writes: YAAAA I'm linked. This must be how Steve Martin felt in the Jerk when his name was finally in the phone book :-) I AM SOMEBODY!!!
---
**Genda** writes: Easy there, Chainsaw
