Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [January](./westkarana.md)
# Inhabitants of Spellborn not the brightest bulbs in the Deadspell Storm

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-01-02 14:09:45*

In Spellborn, The Enclave is the collective name for the good, law-abiding survivors of the destruction of their planet that followed the defeat of their alien oppressors. Since they are good people, they punish evil doers and other criminal sorts only with exile, where they have set up an outcast faction called the Ousted.

Once your family is Ousted, you never, ever get back in. Not your children, not their children, innocents suffer forever for the crimes of their ancestors.

So, the main tension in Chronicles of Spellborn is stopping the more barbaric factions of the Ousted from coming back and killing everyone and ruining everything in their anger.

Kinda makes you think that maybe the Enclave really were the cause of their own misery here? No place for forgiveness or rehabilitation. You're a good guy until it's proven you're a bad guy, then you and your family are Ousted for all time.

And what are a lot of the quests in Spellborn all about? That's right. Killing the Ousted. Instead of properly punishing their ancestors, you send out newbies to slaughter their children.

Who DOESN'T think the ruling House, House Torque, is just filled with fascist tinpot dictators? I'd like to get a good look at the kind of person that would join Torque. And not because I'm from House Rune. I hated Torque way before I joined the House of Librarians.

