Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [November](./westkarana.md)
# PS3 vs Xbox 360... when did the PS3 become the better buy?

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-11-06 07:57:30*

Because the PS3 is, as everyone is fully aware, incredibly more expensive than the Xbox 360, when I went to buy my "Rock Band"-playing system over the weekend, I chose the Xbox to save some money.

I got home and found I didn't have a wireless adapter to connect it to my home wireless LAN. I had just assumed that, like the PSP, Wii and Nintendo DS I owned, that it would be built in. This is 2007, right?

No, it's an option, $88 at Newegg. The HD DVD player is yet another option.

`
| PS3/40GB | 399.99 |

| One controller included | 0.00 |

| One game included | 0.00 |

| Wireless included | 0.00 |

| Blu-ray DVD included | 0.00 |

| Additional game | 59.99 |

| Additional controller | 39.99 |

| **Total** | 499.98 |

|  |

| And for the Xbox 360: |

|  |

| XBox 360/20GB | 349.99 |

| One controller included | 0.00 |

| Two games included | 0.00 |

| Wireless adapter | 87.99 |

| HD DVD | 169.99 |

| Additional controller | 44.99 |

| **Total** | 652.96 |

`

I'm just saying. I'm an Xbox 360 owner, not a PS3 owner, so don't be bashing me as a Sony fangirl. But getting a similarly equipped Xbox 360 and PS3 system would cost you over $150 more for the Xbox -- and with only half the hard drive space to boot.

Now you might argue that the Xbox has more and better games... and you might be right. And you could say you have no interest in HD-DVD *or* Blu-ray... in which case the PS3 is more expensive by a couple of dollars... but for those couple of dollars, you get Blu-ray, just in case you want to look at HD movies sometime in the future.

I was leaning toward the PS3, but my son is rabid about the Xbox so that was the tipping point. I didn't know when I brought it home, though, how much it would cost in additional things, such as the network adapter.

So there it is. Shock of the year. PS3 becomes relatively affordable. Plus, in the package comparison, the PS3 lets you choose a game. The Xbox came with a Marvel comics game and Forza Racing. If you would have bought those anyway, that's a win for the Xbox. The PS3 comes with a Spiderman game, and then to make things fair, you get to buy a game of your own choosing :)


